And.
So today we are going to start
the next chapter. Chapter five
of the book, which is about the
sequential logic. So before
starting this chapter.
Uh, who actually
saw this? Movie
by Christopher Nolan.
It's a pretty, I mean old movie.
It's in 2000, uh, it is
released. I mean 2000 in the
year 2000, so 20 years old.
But, uh.
Wait, Justin who else actually
saw this movie.
Yeah, Sean did that so.
I really suggest you to
see this brilliant movie.
I mean, uh, to be honest.
The first debut movie of
Christopher Nolan, which was a
kind of a private movie. I mean,
it was not a Hollywood based
movie and this is the second
movie of the Christopher Nolan
was a big movie.
This movie is one of my most or
from my opinion the best movie
of the Christopher Nolan.
As I said, it's 20 years old.
You might say that it's old.
It's an old movie, but I I mean,
trust me, uh, it's a good movie
and it's worth to allocate two
or three hours to watch the
movie. You might not understand
the movie at first. I mean, for
one time, so you have to watch
this movie two or three times
and also read about the.
A form or the structure of the
movie, but basically the plot is
that it's about the guy that
lost his long-term memory. So
there is a character in this
movie that only can remember
just 10 minutes or 15 minutes as
a short period of time and then
suddenly everything actually
resets. So I picked this movie
just to show you that.
The basic or the fundamental, a
fact that we can memorize or can
learn learning is the process
that we memorize things so.
Yeah, it's because of the
feedbacks. Because of the we
can recover what we've seen
or what we've learned so far.
So today we are going to
introduce a different model
of logic circuits.
All sequential logic. We
already covered the combinational
logic and the combination of
logic was based on whatever the
value of the input after some
propagation delay, we have the
value of the output ready.
However, in sequential logic, we
said that we can have.
Feedbacks, meaning that one or
more of the outputs can come to
the input of the circuit.
So this way you are kind of a
recurring or wants to memorize
the output to the input. So in a
circular feedback we are trying
to memorize something or some
some of the output that we
already output to the. For the I
mean combination circuit we just
wanted to recover the output with
an memorize it.
So this is called
sequential logic.
Whenever we have a
feedback from the output
of the combinational
circuit to the input.
Ah.
So let's see what happens when
we want to add a feedback once
to add an input. That input
comes from the output from the
previous step or previous time.
So again, we can, uh, we just
now I just wanted lost with the
I mean this most simplest.
Sequential logic we saw this
diagram when we introduced the
combinational logic. The most
simplest circuit, but just and
to input an output F. Now we
just wanted to see what happens
if I attach the F to one of the
other input of the and. Imagine
you have you're given if and
with three input and two inputs
are X&Y. As in the combination
logic, but the third input
actually is feeding from the output.
It's F as you can see here.
So.
Here is the Boolean function for
that F X&Y is equal to X&Y, but
here one thing actually matters
is the time because we want to
see what's the value of F in the
next step or in the next time
interval based on the value of
X&Y, and because you have the
feedback from previous step, we
have to add this.
And Y and with the F the
output from the previous step T?
So F from T goes to one of the
input of the and with three
inputs. But this F comes from
the previous system, so F T&Y&X
now becomes the X&Y, but this
time in the T + 1.
So let's see what happens.
By default, when you are in the
positive logic as we said in the
first, in the second chapter at
the start of the second chapter,
we usually by default we are in
the positive logic, meaning that
all the circuits are in the low
voltage. Whenever we need to
create a digit one, we have to
create, we have to increase the
voltage to plus five or within
that range. So by default when
there is no need for high
voltage. All the circuits are in
a low voltage or zero ground.
So imagine at the first step of
the time F0, the output is 0.
So we can assume that we go to
the previous time interval,
previous times up until the
first time interval, and we
assume that the first time the
initial time interval it is 0.
So based on the first time
interval. So let's see
what's the progress of this.
I mean simplest form of the
sequential logic at the point 0 F
gonna be 0.
And why is 1,X
is 1 so becoms?
Ah, sorry.
I becomes one and with one
and with zero, so there is
all going to be 0. So again
as you can see here, at time
zero F0 is 0. So whenever we
have a zero in an and, we
don't look at the other
inputs. Simply output 0 so F
in the next time interval
going to be 0.
The next step.
As you can see here, because F
is zero in the previous step. So
because it goes to the one of
the input of the and, the output
in the next step going to be 0.
So this logic circuit actually
always output zero and doesn't
look at the X&Y because F is
always zero and one of the input
of the and is 0. So simply output
0. So with this simplest form of
the sequential logic, as you can
see here, we cannot memorize the
digit one. It always outputs
zero kind of just memorizing 0.
So you could say that what
happens in the negative logic
when the initial step is 1? For
instance at. If we assume that
at the first time in step.
This logic outputs one, so even
if the first time interval F at
times zero becomes one, you can
see that one comes here. Assume
that in this is that we have one
X&Y and one as on this one which
is 1, so one and one, and if we
assume that the initial step of
F is 1, so one, so the output
going to be 1.
OK, and then after this time
interval Y becomes 0.
And because Y becomes zero, this
logic circuit goes to 0.
And then when it goes to zero,
it never can recover to one
because this logic circuit, if
it goes to the zero state, the F
gonna be always zero and makes
the output always 0, even if X&Y
are different values, or both or
one. So this logic circuit, even
if you are in the negative logic
and the default value for the
time step F0, is 1.
For awhile. Becomes one, but if
it reaches 0 state actually
then it's always 0.
So. Uh, by this logic circuit,
we can say that this logic
circuit cannot memorize one
because if it becomes one and if
one of the inputs X or Y becomes
zero and it goes to the zero
state it is it remains there and
it never recovers to re memorize
another digit 1.
So let's. Try another
sequential logic. Just
change the just to fix that.
To try that to memorize zero
and then memorize one
whenever we want to memorize
it binary number.
So I just added not a gate here
just to see what happens if we
do the feedback and then and not
to the and gate.
So as you can see here, the
difference here is that X&Y.
And F bar or F prime from previous
step. And we are in the positive
logic by default. So the first
step F0 is 0.
So.
If you start at the first time,
X is 1,X is 1. Y is one OK and
the initial step of the F at
times zero is 0?
So after Delta T propagation
delay one and one and 0.
So one and one and.
Here goes 0. Here comes the
initial F is 0 and then not
becomes one, so zero prime one
and one and one becomes one.
So at initial after Delta T time
step we have one in the output
in the F.
So FX&Y T + 1 here.
Up until here we have one in the
output. So let's see what
happens next after Delta T, so
this F becomes one and one
comes here becomes not and one
not becomes 0 after 2 delta T after
another Delta T, you see that X.
As you can see here, X is 1
still. Y is one is still so
X&Y is still there one, however
F? In the previous step, becomes
one and now one bar or prime
becomes zero and then reduced. I
mean reduce the high voltage to
0 for the F so it drops from 1 to 0.
And then see what happens next.
At the third Delta T, so after
another step, the previous F was
zero. Zero comes here and then
applies. The not becomes one.
So here. The previous step of
the F2  it is zero, and
then bar becomes one.
Now we have to see the X&Y
in this Delta T and the third
Delta T y is zero, X is 1, so one
and zero and zero bar from the F
from previous step. So because
Y is zero, it makes the output
of the and 0.
And then at 4th step as you can
see here, you have to check what
was the value of F in the
previous time interval.
And what's the current value of
X&Y? So here the current value
of X&Y are both 0.
So whatever the previous
value of F doesn't matter
actually because this is 0
not becomes one, but X
and Y are 0, so it's still 0.
So as long as X and Y are 0 all
the output of the F gonna be
always zero. Although we have a
feedback from F bar here
because however, because X and
Y are 0 the output  is always zero.
So my question is here, is this
so now we know that the F from
previous time is 0 and now X&Y
becomes one. What would
be the output of F in
the new time interval?
Correct, because as
you can see here.
F is 0.
To the next of previous time
interval, the next zero not
becomes one, so this input
becomes one. X is 1 already.
Y is 1 already so one and
one and one becomes one? So
it goes to one?
However. It keeps it only
remains at one for Delta T. The
reason is after the Delta T this
is 1. One goes here, then not
becomes zero and then makes the
output of the and in the next
step 0. So it is 1.
Not. Here it becomes not becomes
zero the and gonna be 0.
Again, for Delta T it keeps 0.
And then this not comes to the F
becomes a 0, not becomes one. So
now X is 1. Y is 1 so one and
one and one becomes one? So
again goes to the one.
But keeps for Delta T1, but one
comes here not becomes zero and
then makes the and 0. So as you
can see here, as long as X&Y are
one, both these inputs are one.
The only thing matters is the
feedback from the output.
However, if F from the previous
step is zero, goes to one and
then after a while it becomes
one, not becomes 0.
And then zero becomes one, an
etc. So you see that.
This sequential logic is trying
to recover from zero to 1, but
it cannot keep at one because as
long as it becomes one after the
Delta T applies, the not one
becomes zero and next the and
zero and again it becomes zero
and then not becomes one, so it
jitters. Or it's kind of
intermittently swapped between
zero and one. It never actually
remains stable. At 1
so this is the problem of this
sequential logic, but at least
we could cover for a very moment
here to one, so it's better from
the previous logic.
So.
Now let's this is the I mean.
This is the kind of work we're
going to do today. We're trying
to build a combination of logic
by adding a feedback to memorize
a bit just one bit, either zero
or one. For the first design, we
saw that for this diagram you
saw that it can always memorize
zero, and it can never recover
to one, so we cannot memorize
one with this logic circuit with
this logic circuit, we can
recover from this zero state,
but it goes to zero and one as
you can see here, it just
details within 0 1.
So it's kind of better, but it's
not actually correct. For now in
practice, so we're going to
build a sequential logic that
can memorize whenever we want to
memorize zero. It keeps zero
whenever we want to memorize
one. It keeps one, so we can
handle what digit we want to
memorize, and as long as we
decide to memorize a digit, we
want that sequential logic to
memorize that digit we want.
So let's. see this, we already
saw this gate. This is called
buffer. So for the buffer gate
simply whatever is the input, it
goes to the output just with.
With a propagation delay.
Sometimes we need to create some
delays, but in this course we
said that the delay can be
assumed to be 0. So for the
buffer gate, whatever goes to
the input goes the output.
So if I attach the output of
this gate to the input, we could
say that as long as we put one,
this circuit circulates to the
value of 1. So we can say that
we are memorizing one because
one comes. Here, goes here, and
then comes here and etc.
Also, we could say that we could
make it 0, so if I input zero it
goes to zero and then zero
comes. Here comes here. So it
circulates to the zero state so
we can memorize 0.
But this a logic circuit with
feedback or sequential logic
circuit has a problem. It is
logically incorrect. You
couldn't say that I could use a.
Buffer gates X and as long as X
is zero, it memorize zero as as
long as it is 1.
It becomes memorizing 1?
What's the problem? What's
the logical problem with
this circuit?
It might be, I mean, intuitive,
but not only in the engineering
perspective, but also in the
logical part. In this course.
This logic is not correct.
Ah Marco says that if X
changes, feedback is different.
You right. But The thing is, we
can control their X. For
instance, we say that we want to
memorize one, so we make X 1 and
since then it memorized one.
Uh, if you want to change our
memory to 0 so we can make we
can apply the change to The x,x
becomes zero and then the this
second memorize 0. So we decide
what bits we want to memorize.
But this cannot be applied in
not only practice, but also in
this course. The thing is, the
false. I mean design in this
picture is that the buffer gate
has only one input. So although
you can make an attachment to
the output and you can say that,
let's see what's the output and
create another wire from the
output. But for the gates it
depends on the number of inputs
to the gate. We cannot simply
attach this one to the wire to
the X. So what happens?
X If X is zero an this one
becomes one in the previous
step. Imagine we have stored
one, so one comes here and if we
make X 0 So what happens in this
point? There is no gate here so
we haven't studied any
attachment of wires with
different binary values. So here
we have high voltage. Here we
have low voltage. What happens
here? We already knew that
when we have two inputs,
we need a gate to apply on
that for the buffer gate.
You only accept one input.
So we cannot simply attach the
wire from output to the input.
So this is not logically
correct. It means that. I mean
it is very similar to the not
gate. So for the not gate you
cannot simply input 2.
Inputs, because not gate is only
accept one input.
So this is logically incorrect,
so you cannot build this at
logical level. Not only I mean,
I mean I also you cannot build
this in the practice.
So let's pick another gate that
accept two inputs.
So for the two inputs at the
simplest gate gonna be, and
so let's try the feedback
with the and gate.
So one of the input of the end
could be our control. Whatever
we want to memorize, for
instance X. And the output of
the and gate can be comes to the
feedback as the second input of
the and gate.
So what happens with this?
What's the problem with
this design?
We already covered the problem
with this simplest design
sequential logic design. What's
the problem with this?
Any of you?
Correct, Marco says that
it's cool.
Justin says 6, 6 oh sorry.
You mean 0?
Yes, actually this this is very
similar to our.
Let me come back here
to this here we have
and the three input.
In this design, you have added
two inputs. And correct it
always stays at zero. And the
reason is by default if we
assume that our at time step
zero the output is 0,one of the
input of the and is zero,
always 0 even the next step 0
to the next step zero, it
always is, I mean.
It stays at 0, even if at some
point. I'm assuming that from I
mean some, I mean.
Irregularities at some point we
have one. Even if you have one
here, one comes here. It depends
on the X, so as long as we keep
one, the output gonna be one.
But suddenly if we do X 0 and it
goes to the zero state, it
remains at 0. So this gate or
this sequential logic, if it
goes to this zero state, it
remains there and it never
recovers to the one even if you
change the X.
So.
Also, this one if we do the
feedback by not we saw that this
logic circuit actually jitters
between if it goes to 0.
Zero becomes one. Assume that X
is always one. If you assume
that X is always one, meaning
that we want to memorize one. So
one comes here 0 by default,
zero comes here becomes one. So
the and gates becomes one.
But after awhile one comes here,
not becomes zero becomes 0.
So the next step is 0 from one
goes to zero and if it goes to
0, not becomes one. So it goes
to the one so it always jitters
between zero and one as long as
X is 1.
If X is zero, it's always
gonna be a stays at 0, so
again it cannot store 0 as
long as X is zero, it
memorized 0, but if X is
becomes becomes one. In
order to memorize one, it
jitters between zero and
one, so it never becomes
stable. At the law, high
voltage for the value of 1.
So the next try gonna be this
one. You can try with other
gates. For instance, you can
change the and with or we can
change the and with X or we can
change with nor with NAND and
practice at home. Is it possible
to memorize a bit by using one
gate and using a feedback to the
another input of that gate? For
instance for the OR gate, try
that or for the exclusive.
Or or for the NAND or nor
Gates try this.
If you try that, you see that
there are some problems with
those, I mean sequential logic
with only one gate, but the next
try gonna be using 2.
And Gates an using these
feedbacks. Instead of just
feedback into the gate itself,
let's do a feedback to another
gate. So we have two ands here.
X goes the first and. y goes
to the second one and the output
of the first and
Goes to the second input of the
2nd and the output of this
second, and goes to the another
input of the first and.
So. This is the way we do. The
feedback in this design.
So kind of cross feedback.
So let's see what happens
with this design.
So if you are given this design,
and x is zero and Y is 0.
What happens?
As you can see here, so the
another input of each and each
and for a first and another
input comes from the F2.
At time T, in order to see
what's the F1 in at time T + 1.
So current step. What's the next
step? Also, for the 2nd
and O and with the current
value of F1.
And in order to see what's the
next value of F2.
So imagine we look at the logic
circuit correctly and we want to
see what happens next.
So as you already knew, for the
and gate, as long as one of the
input is zero, you don't have to
wait for the other input, so
simply output 0, so if.
X is Zero Y is 0. The output for
the F1 and F2 is 0.
Regardless of the current state
of F2 and F1.
So the next combination for the
input is X is 1. And Y is
zero again? Y is 0 the 2nd
and is always 0? Because Y is
there we don't have to wait for
the current state of current
value of F1
So F2 for the next step is
going to be 0 because Y is
zero. However, for the first
and one and with the current
value of F2.
So the current value of after
whatever ands with one becomes a
dad thing for so F2 and with one
becomes F2 but the current.
value of F2, so F1.
In the next step, gonna be the
value of F2 which was currently
so F1 in the next step going to
be F2 currently.
So it's kind of F1 preserving or
restoring or showing the value
of F2 in the current step.
So let's see what happens when Y
is 1, an X is 0.
So again, because X is zero and
anything with zero gonna be 0,
so F1 this times becomes 0.
However, F2 in the next step on
the future gonna be one and with
F1 currently. But F
so it becomes F1.
Currently so F2 in the next
step gonna show the value
of F1 which is currently.
And the last one is if both the
inputs X&Y becomes one.
So if both becomes one, the only
thing matters for the and is the
current value of F1 and F2. For
F1. It depends on the current
value of F2.
For the F2 in the next step, it
depends on the current value of
F1. As you can see here.
So if X is 1, Y is 1, F1 in the
next step gonna be the current
value of F2?
An F2 in the next step gonna be
the current value of F1.
And this is because of this
cross feedback.
So we know that what's going to
be the value of F1 and F2 in the
next step, but this is based on
the value of current.
F1 and F2.
So let's see what are these
values. So we have to check.
Different possibilities for the
value of F1 and F2.
At current step, in order
to see what's the actual
value for the next step.
So again, as you can see here
this logic circuit, if it goes
to the zero state.
If it goes to zero State, so if
the input is 00 and  always
the output gonna be 0.
OK, and if it goes to this 00,
the current step becomes zero.
Let's back to the this one if
the current step is 0, this
becomes zero. This becomes zero.
This becomes zero and this
becomes 0. So if the current
state is 0.
For F1 and zero for the F2
regardless of the value of X&Y.
We have always zero in
the output.
So this design has the same
problem as the previous
sequential logic with one gate
one and gate.
So when it goes to the zero
state, meaning that the
current step current value of
F1 is zero and the current
value of F2 is 0.
It remains at the Zero State and
never recovers the one.
So let's fix this with the OR
gate. Now we add two or gate is
left to and it and see what
happens. So I'm not going to
check this today. Please
practice this at home and see
what's the problem with this
sequential logic. Again.
For different combination of
X&Y, if X is 00 01 10 and 11
, what happens to the F1
and F2 in the next step
assuming that the current
value of F1 and F2 is these
values.
And then you see that if the
current step is 00, what happens
if the current step is 1 1,
what happens, etc.
says that does the.
Overlapping affect the output.
Uh.
What do you mean by the
over overlapping?
This over this you mean this?
No, no there is no connection
here. There is no
connection here.
Yeah, I mean whenever we we want
to say that the wires has a
connection, we have to make it
bolts here. For instance, here
we make a connection.
Or here we make a connection,
but as long as the wire crossing
each other without any this I
mean circle, it means that they
are just passing each other.
There are no connection there.
Marco says that if you get
a one in, the output will
never be 0 again. Oh, for
this design correct? Yes.
If you if you your current state
is 1. If at some point you see
that the value of F2 currently
is 1 and the value of F1
currently is 1, it never look at
the X&Y because we are in the OR
gate, so as long as one input of
the or gate becomes one, the
output gonna be one, so it goes
to here one.
Here becomes one and again one
comes here. One comes here
always one so regardless of the
value of X&Y, this is the
reverse logic of the and. So
when it goes to the one state,
it never recovers 20 state. So
if you want this sequential
logic to the store zero, we
cannot do that because it always
one of the inputs is always one.
True, that's the problem with
this sequential logic.
Ah, as as Marco said, no, this
doesn't solve our problem, and
the reason is it stays as one.
So let's change the.
Or gate with the Norgate.
As you can see here, whenever we
wanted to get, I mean just
escape from being in a 0 or
being in a one. The Escape
solution is applying and not.
So for instance, are.
Let's come back here for
instance here, in order to just
escape from this zero state, we
apply the not to go to the one,
but it doesn't solve our problem
because it goes to one and 0.
Here we apply the same
solution. So now we want to
get rid of, for instance,
being at zero forever or being
at one forever. So we apply
and not. So applying and not
after the OR gate for instance
it becomes Norgate. So let's
see what happens within
NOR gate.
So. Again, we want to see
what's the value of F1 and F2
for the next step before the
next time interval.
Assume that currently the value
of the F1 is F1, T and the value
of F2 is F2, T. OK. So and these
are different value of X&Y
00 01 10 and 11, so let's see
happens when the X&Y are both 0.
If both 0 so in the OR gate. If
one of the input is zero, we
have to look at the other input,
so the other input is F2 for the
first NOR gate. The NOR means
that F2 goes to the OR gates
followed by the NOT, so it
becomes F2 bar OR F2 prime.
So the next value of F1 is going to be
the current value of F2
Followed by a NOT, so F2 NOT.
The same happens with the second
NOR, so if Y is zero, it goes
here. So this is the OR gates.
We have to look at the other
input F1 currently and then
followed by the NOT. So F1 NOT.
so the next value of F2 is going to
be the current value of F1
followed by the NOT.
OK. And we assume that for now
we don't know the current value,
either zero OR one. We just put
it based on the variables.
Current value of F2 followed by
the NOT goes to the F1. Current
value of F1 followed by the NOT
go to the F2.
So let's see what happens when
we have zero and one.
So if X is 1 and Y is 0, so
for the OR gate, whenever we
have the input one, we don't
have to look at the other input.
So OR becomes one followed by
the NOT becomes 0.
So F1 for the next step is going
to be 0 regardless of the
current value of F1 and F2.
However, for the second OR, it is
very like, I mean to the
previous slide. So Y is 0. So
we have to see what's the
other input for the OR gate.
This is F1 and F1 followed
by the NOT becomes F1 bar or
F1 prime.
So for this case, F2 is equal to
this, F1 bar.
What happens when Y becomes one
and X becomes 0?
So the reverse logic. So this
time, Y is 1 so the OR gate
outputs one regardless of the
other input and then followed by
the NOT, it becomes 0.
F2 for the next step becomes 0.
However, X is 0, so you have to
look at the other input, the
current value of F2
Followed by the NOT, so F2 NOT.
And if both are one,
If both are one,
The OR gate is going to output one,
followed by the NOT becomes zero
if both inputs are one.
F1 and F2 for the next
value is going to be 0.
So now we know what
happens based on different
value of X&Y. The next
step of F1 and F2 is based on the
current step of F1 and F2.
But the next question is,
what are the possibilities
for the current step?
So. We have to check all the
current possibilities for the
F1 and F2 and see the
different values for the next
value of F1 and F2.
So imagine currently the F1 is
zero, and F2 is 0.
As you can see here, F1 and F2
is always zero currently OK. Or
you could say that we are at the
time 0, so initial start of the
sequential logic is zero and it's in
positive logic, so always 0. So
let's see what happens. So we
already knew that based on the
current value of F1 and F2, we
have these values for the next
step. So if the current step,
for instance F1 is 0,
F1 bar becomes for the F2.
And current step of F2 is
zero, F2 bar becomes for the F1,
so these two becomes 0 bar = 1,
zero bar = one. This one becomes
0 bar = one and this term becomes
0 bar = one. So if the current
step is 0,
This is going to be the value of
F1 and F2 for the next step.
OK.
There is one thing you can see
so, this logic circuit or
this sequential logic can go to
the zero. When it goes, when
the current step is both 0, it can
go to the zero. Also, it can go
to the one. So it changes
between zero and one.
And. Uh, we'll see what happens
if the next step changes. If the
current step are other values,
but as long as the current step
is zero, it can go to 0.
And it can go to one for the F1.
Also for the F2.
So.
Two nice properties happens in
this truth table. The first one
isY, you called this
combination of X&Y a reset action.
The reason is.
Y is 0, X is 1.
And it changes the F1, the first
output to zero, and the second
output one. So if we assume that,
we always consider the F1 the
main output of the sequential
logic, and F2 the secondary or
kind of not the main one.
So if we always want to see what
is going to be memorized by this logic
circuit, we only consider the F1
for now. Just for now. You could
say that by
Injecting the one to the X
and zero to the Y, we can
convert this sequential
logic to output 0.
So this is called the reset
action. And it makes this
sequential logic to output zero
for the next step. So we call
this a reset state.
And as you can see here, the
zero is the complement of
this one. So F1 and F2 in
this case are acting as
complements of each other.
The next one is this. You
could say that this logic
circuit can go to state
one, the output. The main
output F1 becomes one. If the
Y becomes one and X
becomes 0,
we call this combination of
the X and Y a set action,
meaning that we want to set the
logic circuit and when we do
that, this logic circuit from
the 01 state goes to the 10
state. So the main output is 1,
the secondary output or the
other F2 becomes 0.
And as you can see here,
these two again, they are
complements of each other.
So we have reset action
That brings the F1 to 0.
We have set action that
brings the sequential
circuit to one.
But there are other problems
here, so you can see
that whenever we have 00,
F1 and F2 are NOT
complements of each other and
there are in state one, so
what do we call this
and how can we solve this if
it is a problem? Also we have
another one. If X&Y are both
one, it goes to zero and the
state is at 0. So is it
possible to fix this?
So again as you can see here,
the set and the reset states are
complements of each other for the
F1 and F2, so the value of F1 is the
complement of the F2 and
for the set state, it's the same.
So all these happens when the
current state is 0. So let's see
what happens when the current
state is 1.
OK so far, any questions?
So all these are I mean analysis
when the current state of
the sequential logic is at 0.
So now we want to explore what
happens if the current state is
1 for both F1 and F2.
Any questions?
So.
For the.
If the current step for both
F1 and F2 is 1, so this is the
truth table or this is the
value we calculated regardless
of the current state.
If the current state or the
current value of F1 is 1 and 1,
so you can see that the the F1
in the next step is the F2 bar,
and F2 is F1 bar, so both are
one. So if this one becomes
zero, this one becomes zero. Also
this one becomes zero and this
one. So you can see that if
the current state of
this logic is 1,
It goes to this zero state, and
this is the default state as we
just explained that.
So. If the current step is
zero, it goes to the set and
reset state, but if
the current state is 1, it
goes to the zero, so it always
outputs 0, which is the
default state. It is this
state.
So you can imagine what happens
if I wait for another time, so
if the T + 1 becomes T + 2,
what happens? Anybody?
So at time T, we are at the state
11. At time T + 1 it goes
to 00. What happens at
time T + 2?
Anybody?
As I said, I mean this is the
exact state as we have
F(T) all as 0.
So at time T + 2, it
behaves like this.
So.
If the current step is 11, it
goes to 00 regardless of the
value of X&Y.
And this is exactly the
default state, at time T
+ 2, it acts like this.
Like this.
Assume that this is T + 1.
And this is T + 2.
OK.
So if it goes to the
State 11, it goes to the zero and
then you have to wait for
another T, it goes to the.
Sorry. This step. So it
goes to here and then it goes
to this state.
So you can see that if this
sequential logic goes to the 11
state, it can easily
recover to the normal set and
reset actions. So we have to
just wait for another time step.
Because at first, it goes to the
default state and then when they
are in the default set, it can
recover to set and reset states.
So the next
possibility for the current
state is that F1 is 1.
And F2 is 0.
And this is the value we already
calculated regardless of the
current value of F1 and F2.
Now we want to see what happens
for the next step, for the F1 and
F2, if the current step of F1 and F2
is this. The current
state of the F1 is 1.
And the current state of F2 is 0.
So again, we already know that
the F1 for the next step is going
to be F2 followed by the NOT, and
F2 is F1 followed by the NOT, and
etc. So if F1 is one, F1 followed
by the NOT becomes 0.
If F2 is zero, F2 followed by
the NOT becomes one. So F1 in
the next step becomes one.
This one, F1 bar.
1 becomes 0 here.
F2 bar. F2 bar becoms
one. And
Again, when the F1 is 1
and F2 is zero, we are in
these set state and the
set state goes to here.
So again.
This. Becomes this.
Well, you can see that,
When the F1 is 1 and F2 is zero,
we already said that this is the
set state. The main output of
the F1 is 1. The next time
step or the next state is going to
change like this.
So 10 becomes 10 in the next
step, so you can repeat the 10.
10 goes to the 00 if
X is one and Y is 0.
10 or set state goes to this
again, set state. If Y is 1
and X is zero, and if X&Y are
both one, the set state goes to
the default state.
So you can see that if you are
in the set state,
With the value 00, you remain as
the set state.
With the value 10,
Again, you're in the set state.
However, in these two cases, you
changes both to 00.
So. The first one where you keep
your set state is called store
or hold. You already know that
01 is the reset, 10 is the set,
and now the 00, because it keeps
the set current state, we call
this a store or hold for this action.
Because 10 becomes still 10.
And this one.
The set action.
Although it keeps the current
set state, we call this again
set action because you are kind
of setting the set state, so you are kind
of overwriting the set state. So
the only difference here is that
in here, we say that we want to
preserve the previous state,
which is the set state. In this one,
we say that we want to set this
state. The current state is set.
We want to set the set state.
So kind of overwriting.
However this
truth table has one problem
and the thing is, if the
current step
or current state is 10,
maning that it is the set
state, you are in the current
state of set.
And if you do reset action 01.
F1 becomes 0.
But F2 becomes 02, and these two
are not complements of each other.
So we cannot say that the recent
action goes to the reset state
because although the F on the
output is zero,
the F2 is not a complement of F1.
So.
The thing is, this is NOT a
problem because
if you are at 10,
and you keep the reset action,
it goes to the 00.
And if we wait for another time
step, it means that if we go to
the T + 2
and if we are in the 00
state, what happens?
We already said that if the
current step of F1 and F2 is 00,
and we do this reset action,
it goes to the 01.
We already saw this in the
default states, so let's come
back to the default state here.
When the current step is both 0 for
the F1 and F2, if you are in
the reset action,
we do the reset.
And F1 and F2
becomes the complement of each
other. So let's go back to
the problem.
Here, if you are in a set
state, F1 is 1 and F2 is 0, and
we do the reset,
It goes to the 00, but if you
wait for another time interval,
00 and are still doing the reset, it
goes to the 01, so we can solve
the problem by just waiting for
another time step.
So if the current is 1
for the F1 and zero for the F2
meaning the set state, you
have to instead of just waiting for one
time interval, you have to wait
for two time intervals.
And then the reset
action resets the
state.
So there's another
possibility that we have to
see what happens.
In, oh.
This is the possibility. So the
other possibility is
what happens when the current
state is a reset?
So if the current state
of F1 this time becomes
zero and F2 becomes one.
So again, we already knew that
based on the current step, we know what
happens to the next step of the
F1 and F2. So if the current
step OR the current state is
this. F1 becomes F2
bar. F2 bar, this time, F2 is
one. F2 bar becomes
zero. F1
is zero, F1 bar becomes one, so it becomes
01, and etc. So if the current
step is 01,
meaning that we are
in a reset state,
we go to this.
01 01 00 and
00. So you see that
00, if we are in the reset state,
goes to the reset state, so it
means that again you're holding
or storing the reset state.
If we do the reset action and we are
in the reset state, we are kind
of resetting the reset state, so
it goes to the 01.
The same, but the first one
we call it hold or store.
The second one we call
it the reset action or
resetting the reset state.
Again, as you can see here.
When you do the set action
and during the reset state,
meaning that you are storing
zero in the first input
and you want to make it 1,
by set action, it doesn't go to
the one, it goes to the 00.
This is the same as the previous
I mean problem so,
F1 is zero, F2 is 0. They are NOT
complements each other and they
are not in the set state.
However, you already knew that
if you reach the 00,
and you go on in the set action,
by next step it goes to the set
state, so you already knew
that if the current value of F1
and F2 is 00 and it is a set
action, it goes to the set
state. So the problem can be
solved by just waiting.
So if you do wait for another
time interval, the 00 becomes 10,
meaning that the set action goes
to the set
state.
The only problem remains
when you are in the set
state and you wait for two time
intervals. You can hold.
You can reset. You can set, but
in this time even if you wait,
you always go to zero and when
you go to the zero in this step,
you always remain at 0.
The same is happening here.
When you are in the reset, the
hold state or the hold action, you
keep the reset state. With
the reset state, you can reset.
With the set state or with the
set action, you can reset, so it goes to
the set. However, for the 11,
it goes to the 00, and even
if you wait for, I mean more
time intervals, it keeps
remaining at the 00.
So let's do a recap.
So if your current step
Is in the 00, the default step.
By the 00,
You go to the 11.
01, you go to the reset.
By 10 you go to the set, and by
11, you go to the 00, so these two
are not complements of each other
and we have to handle these
two. For these, for the first
one, if it goes to the 11,
if you wait for another time
interval, it come backs to
here.
OK, 11 and then if you
keep the 00, it goes to
the 00 again.
00 goes the 11. If we keep
00, it goes to the 00, so it's
circulates between 01 01.
And if you go to the 11
and you change the set and reset,
So 11 reset. For the time
interval one, it goes to 00. But if
you wait for another time
interval, it goes to the
reset.
If you are at 11 and you do
set, first it goes to 00 and then
you wait for another time
interval, it goes to the set state.
And if you are inputting 11, it
always remains at 0.
So one problem is that
if you are at 11 and
you keep inputting 11,
it always remains at 00.
And also if you are at zero, if
you input 00 and you are at 11,
it goes to 01, and come backs to
10 again, it circulates. So
the only two states that are actually
working is 01 and 10.
So, and also if you are in the
reset state, you can hold it.
You can reset the reset. Also
you can set, meaning that from
the 10, it goes to the.
Uh, sorry if you are in the
set state, you can do a reset,
you can hold it. You can set
the set state. But
again, in this state, you
are remaining at 00.
If you are at the reset state,
you can hold it.
You can reset the reset state.
You can set
10. This is the reset state, it goes
to the set state. But if you are at
11, you go to the 0.
The thing is, as you can
see in all these truth tables,
at any point,
with the 00, the next
step of the F1 is the previous
value of the F1.
The next step of F2 is the
previous value of F2. Whatever
we are, we have the F1 and F2.
We are just holding them.
If you do the 01 in the input,
whatever they output of the previous
step is, we just reset them so
it goes to 01.
If you input 10 in the set
action, whatever the previous
step is, we just put it in the
10 or set state.
However, if you input 11
, it goes to the 00. So the thing is
because 00, they are not
complements of each other, so we
say that we can control the
X&Y so that it never goes to the 11.
Or whenever it goes to 11, we
just simply say that do not look
at the F1 and F2, the state of
the sequential logic doesn't
actually have a meaning.
In other cases, we could say
that if the input is 00,
F1 and F2 outputs whatever
is in the previous time
interval, F1 and F2, meaning
holding OR storing.
If you put 01 in the input, you are
doing the reset action. As a
result, you reset the state.
If you do this set action, you
make the F1 = 1 and F2 = 0, you're kind of
setting the state.
This is the most famous, I mean
one of the most famous
sequential logic that is able to
store 0 and 1, and also that is able
to go from any state to the
reset state, meaning that it is
storing 0. Also, it is able to
go from any state
to the set state or one.
Meaning that you ask the
sequential logic to store one.
And because of this,
the X input, which does the reset,
we call it R for reset.
The Y input makes this
set and we call it S.
And as long as S&R are both 0,
meaning that we are not going
to do reset, we are not going
to set. So just keep whatever
you already have.
Whenever you do reset, meaning
that R is 1 and S is 0, we
are doing the reset.
We make the F1 = 0. And F2 is the
NOT of that, which equals one.
We are doing it set,
S is 1 and R is 0.
We make this set one and we never
assume that we both do the reset
and set, so this combination is
forbidden, or we just output
don't care condition.
And this is called RS
sequential logic. Reset, set, and
store if both are zero.
And the F1 is called Q. The
output, the primary output. And
the second output F2 because it
always exceptional in this
case, otherwise it always actually
keeps being the complement of the
Q. That's why we call it Q
prime.
If you are 00, you keep whatever
you already are outputting or you
already have in the previous
steps. So Q in the next step
is going to be QT in the previous
step. Q Prime, is going to be the Q prime
from the previous step. So
these two are always
complements of each other.
Reset and set.
So you have to memorize this,
whenever you are given this
sequential logic,
R = 1, S = 0. It goes to the
sequential logic to the state of
reset. R = 0, S = 1, it brings the
sequential logic to this
step of set, the set state.
Both are zero.
Always keep whatever you
already stored and you never
input both R and S with one
because it goes the sequential
logic to the indeterminate
state.
It goes 00 and the 00 are not
compliments of each other
and it never actually recovers
from this.
So let's practice this. One
thing is that the block diagram
for the RS sequential logic is
this. And, in order to show the
Q prime, we just do this. This is
the Q and this is the Q prime, we
just put this R S.
This is the
most famous and most basic
sequential logic that is able to
store only one bit.
So when you think about the
solid states, I mean hard drives
that has for instance 2
terabytes. Two terabytes means 2
to the power of 10 multiplied
by 10 multiplied by 10. It means that
that solid state has that amount
of this sequential logic.
Just to store one
bit: zero or one.
Ah, and this is the block
diagram and this is called
RS sequential logic.
So if you practice what's the
state of this RS based on
different value of RS within the
time, so we can review the truth
table by time in this diagram.
So this is the RS we designed. So
inside this RS, we
have this. I want to see
what happens based on this
truth table.
Only we consider here the Q, the
main output, and this is always
considered as the Q prime or
the NOT of the first output.
So.
We have to see what happens with
the R and S, because whenever
the R&S changes, the state is going
to be changed. If both are zero, the
states remains. If there are non
0, the state is going to be changed.
So at the first step,
initially, you assume that you
are in the default step, so the
output is 0. So at this time the
output is 0.
So if both are one.
R and S are both one. We say that if
both are one, you say that the
state is a don't care, you don't
have to look at the output
because it goes to the
indeterminate or bad state.
The next one is this. R becomes
zero. And S becomes
1. So this is the set action,
meaning that we do this setting.
Whatever the state is in the
previous step, which was
indeterminate, it goes to the
set state one, so the Q
output is going to be 1.
In the next step, R becomes
zero, and S becomes 0. 00 means
that you preserve or restore
whatever you already have. So it
means that you store. You already
have one, you store 1.
At this very I mean
short period, R becomes one
and S is still 0.
So R = 1, S = 0, meaning that it is in the reset
state. It means that whatever
you already have, you have to
bring it to the reset state,
meaning that it becomes zero.
So it drops from one to zero
because of the reset action.
And then after this point,
both R and S becomes one. So
if both R and S becomes one,
we say that we are in a
forbidden state so we don't have
to look at the output.
So as long as R and S are
both one, you are in the
indeterminate states, so it's
forbidden.
So what happens next. Next, S
becomes one, and R becomes zero.
It means that whatever you
already preserved, bring it to
this set state.
It goes to 1.
The next is R is zero, S
is 0, meaning that in
whatever you already have,
hold it or store it.
So you can assume that this is
going to be one and you can
check at home what happens to
the next time intervals.
So any questions so far?
Oh, we're running out of time.
So.
Any questions?
There's no questions. Sean?
Not that I see.
OK.
So we're running out of time, so
next week we're going to explain
more about the
RS dequential logic that is able
to store 1 bit that is just zero
or one. And, uh, I'm going to
be in the office hour to take
your questions, if there's any.
So.
Thank you so much. Have a
great day.
Thanks Justin.
I just wait for others to leave
the session.